---
title: A Retro Camcorder Adventure – The Samsung SCD77
date: 2026-05-22
slug: 2026-05-22-scd77
category: photography
description: The chunky, impractical camcorder I bought at an auction and was everything I'd hoped for.
tags:
    - camcorder
---

In October of 2025, I was on my way home from Dvorak’s 9th Symphony when I lost my Sony DCR-SX45 camcorder on the bus. All sorts of footage from the previous five months had been lost—it was really unfortunate. 

I used to enjoy bringing it around with me and to play around and document the day; I have a VHS tape I record all my footage to which serves as a highlight reel of my adventures. 

For a couple months, I was without a camcorder. I decided not to replace it right away seeing the steep used prices online for what is—objectively—an old-piece-of-crap.

With the summer coming and a lot of things planned, I thought it would be nice to finally get another one. I turned to an auction site and kept an eye out for cheap, cool camera gear.

### THE CAMCORDER

A couple weeks ago, there were a couple of cameras and camcorders floating around on the site. I was planning to bid on two of them: a digital camcorder and a MiniDV tape camcorder. 

I ended up winning both, but I wanted to write about the latter camcorder first—a Samsung SCD77. It’s old technology, but I think it’s really exciting and nifty!

Although it’s difficult to pin down an exact release date for the model, the images in storage from the previous owner are dated April 7th, 2001, so I’m guessing it was released around that time. The first mentions I can find of it on old forums are around 2002 and indicate it retailed for $500–$700. 

It features a 22x optical zoom which stretches to a practically unusable 500x digital zoom. Holographic hype stickers boasts a 680,000 pixel CCD sensor, digital image stabilization, a 2.5” TFT color LCD and FireWire support. 

This thing records video onto MiniDV tapes—a small, digital tape format launched in 1995. These little tapes are almost exactly half the size of an audio cassette tape but twice as futuristic. It can also function as a digital still camera, recording images onto a SmartMedia card—a thin but comically large predecessor of the SD card.  

The aforementioned display flips out and rotates fully just like any camcorder, but it’s got the worst colour accuracy and viewing angle I’ve seen in any display…ever! I actually love how bad it is, though—it’s funny seeing a full VCR-like interface on a tiny, portable display. There is also a monochrome LCD viewfinder which can be flipped up from the top of the camera. 

### FIRST IMPRESSIONS

When I picked it up from the auction site, it didn’t come with a charger or a cable with a DC-in. I did—at some point—have a cable that would’ve fit, but I threw it out a couple months ago thinking “I’m never going to use that”: I went on a little tirade on a crap drawer a couple months ago and I’ve had a couple moments where I needed some obscure connector or piece of tech I never needed in six years.

That’s how it always is with these things, though, isn’t it? 

So, I ordered myself a charger compatible with the SB-L110 and SB-L220 batteries I got with the camcorder. It arrived two days later, and after a couple hours charge, it all worked! The batteries took quite some time to come back to life, but now that they’re being used regularly again, they seem to be holding a charge longer and charging faster. 

With the camcorder, I got a couple sealed MiniDV tapes and another camera bag. I’ve got too many camera bags—first world problems, I know, I know!

The camcorder, despite its size, sits comfortably in the hand. The soft rubber eye cup for the viewfinder is very comfortable and on-screen operations are controlled by a “MENU ON/OFF” button, a single “ENTER” button and a dial. Nice and simple. 

It’s a lot like using the settings menu for a VCR in both form and function. While the camera is starting up or idling in Play mode, the screen is filled with that classic deep, “no signal” blue. 

You can adjust the iris/aperture, shutter speed, white balance, toggle image stabilization, select from a range of high-tech digital image effects and set the clock so that recording time is stored on the tape. Time is set in 12-hour time, but mine seems to have a bug where it drifts in to 24-hour time—in the afternoons, it’ll read something like “13:39 AM”. 48-hour time exists, people!

Maybe it’s just my old, worn-out batteries, but it seems the flip-out TFT display is a hog! When switching back to the tiny viewfinder, the battery icon gains a couple notches of charge. 

### THE SHOOTING EXPERIENCE

The camera’s mode selector switch is moved by one’s right thumb beside the Record button between three modes: “Camera”, “Player” and “Off”. Camera mode doubles as a digital still camera—there’s a switch on the left side of the camera which changes it from “DSC” to “Camcorder”. This switch also controls whether you see pictures or videos in the “Player” mode. 

When the camera starts up or shuts down, the tape mechanism does its little initialization shuffle. This is the first time I’ve ever shot with a tape-based camcorder, so it’s novel to me to feel a mechanism whirring about in the literal palm of my hand. I just think it’s a real nifty, compact system!

After you hit the satisfyingly bright red Record button, you’ll have to wait a moment or two before the head actually moves into position—“REC” will flash on screen until it starts recording. Similarly, the last second of recording will be cut off when you stop the recording—it’s not a big deal, just something to be mindful of and get used to. 

When recording, the mechanism is pretty whisper-quiet, and it works in whatever situation you throw it in. I recorded a video while riding a bumpy road on my bike and had no issues! In complete silence, though, you can hear the tiny helical scan drum whirring away and even the sound of the motors in the lens zooming in and out.

Unexpectedly, the camcorder produces very 2000’s-looking video. At 640x480, it’s aliased and crunchy with a built-in sharpening filter gently applied on top, leading to some very contrast-y footage with tons of colour noise. I love the look of it—you really can’t get this anywhere else other than on period-accurate hardware, no matter how much people try with filters and whatnot. It’s charmingly crappy. 

There’s not much dynamic range so its easy for the whites to get blown out or the blacks crushed, but its actually really good at judging its own exposure settings in the daytime to get some blue skies and green grass in the same image. It certainly struggles at night, and although the shutter speed can allow night recording, the framerate goes down sharply at 1/15. For indoor night shooting, it comes equipped with a lamp on the front.

A literal lamp. Like, it’s got a bright, tungsten bulb with warm, lamp-temperature light. It’s a very nice temperature—I’d use it as a reading lamp in a pinch.  

The zoom is quick but very linear compared to the smoother, almost bouncy-feeling zooms in more modern camcorders. As I said before, the 500x digital zoom is pretty useless—even on a tripod when all is completely still, you can’t really make much of anything out in the sea of pixels. 

The viewfinder is another very interesting thing for me; I’ve never shot with a monochrome viewfinder before. In the eye, it’s decently large, has a diopter adjustment and is very bright. It’s actually completely usable to compose and shoot your shot. If anything, I find it a lot of fun to see the shot in black and white then watch it back later in colour. 

In Digital Still Camera mode, it…takes photos. There’s nothing really surprising about it here—if you like the way the videos look, you’ll like the way the pictures look. Again, it’s very much a 2000’s digicam kind of look, which is cool in its primitiveness. 

Just like many old still cameras of the time, it’s got a “FRAME” and “FIELD” mode for capturing images with interpolated interlaced lines, or as one whole frame. The digital image effects don’t all work in this mode, unfortunately—“GHOST”, for example, doesn’t render trails when the image is frozen. 

To actually capture an image, you have to press the “PHOTO” button on the top of the camera beside the zoom slider to freeze the current frame. This can be done in both DSC Mode and Camcorder mode, but in DSC Mode, hitting the “Record” button will save that image to the SmartMedia card. Press the “PHOTO” button again to release the frame from the buffer and continue the live preview. 

### OLD INTERFACES

As previously mentioned, this camera records video to MiniDV tapes and photos to a SmartMedia card. Both are digital, but also hopelessly outdated for modern interfaces. 

I don’t have the proprietary cable to transfer the digital photos off the SmartMedia card, nor do I have a SmartMedia reader. I don’t have a FireWire port in any of my computers (a loose FireWire card was part of the stuff I purged from my junk drawer) so there’s no way for me to get the actual files off the camcorder. 

So, instead, I’ve just been using the 3.5mm AV output to get everything off. I take screenshots of the output when in DSC Mode, and I record the output when its playing back a tape. Kinda funky and definitely not getting the full quality of what’s on there, but its functional for now until I figure out a more permanent solution.

I’ve got an analog video capture card in my computer, so I could use the standard 3-pronged RCA cable or S-Video to capture the output. I’ll get a FireWire card eventually, and I think I’m more likely to come across another SmartMedia-based digital camera than I am to actually buy a SmartMedia reader. 

It’s not a rush at the moment. 

### PLAYBACK

Playing back a tape uses significantly less battery than recording; you can leave it on for a little over an hour—around the length of a standard MiniDV tape—in playback mode. Fast-forwarding and rewinding absolutely drains the battery in no-time, so if you’re rewinding or seeking, you’d better have a wall adapter or another battery laying around. 

While seeking through video, charming square artifacts shimmer about the screen. It’s like the fuzz and distortion you get when fast-forwarding a VHS tape, but digital! 

The 8MB SmartMedia card the camera came with stores around 124 photos and takes around half a second to retrieve and draw an image. This makes browsing through the photos on the card a bit tedious, but it’s kind of nice to have to slow down with this old tech. That’s part of the charm and the point of it, isn’t it? 

Everything has to be more deliberate because it’s not instantaneous, and I like that about this era of technology: it’s just digital enough that it works in the modern-day world, but it’s still got an analogue side and old-world sensibilities. 

### ROOTIN’, TOOTIN’, READY FOR SHOOTIN’

I think it’s all great. The whole thing is really nifty and fun to shoot with, and I’m glad I’ve got it. I’ve already taken it out a couple times and I’m really excited for it to follow me on more adventures. 

For as long as I can remember, I’ve always had a camera in my hands. My first ever camera was an HP PhotoSmart M22—my Dad’s first digital camera, bought as an intermediate replacement to his Canon AE-1, he gave to me after he got his Nikon D40. Shooting with different cameras and capturing the things around me in different ways is just part of the fun of going somewhere.

I will say, though, that although old camcorders are lots of fun, I wouldn’t recommend everybody go out and adopt one. There’s a lot of oddities and barriers to entry past acquiring the camera! It’s taken years for me to perfect a system for good-quality analog video capture. It’s definitely not worth it to go out and buy extra card readers and capture equipment just for one device. I’m glad my camera came with tapes, too, because I wouldn’t want to have to source those!

The Samsung SCD77—with its bulkiness, impracticalities—embodies that kind of fun I like to bring around with me. The feel and handling of the camera—not just the images or videos it produces—are part of the experience. No matter how old or what “quality” it can deliver, if it captures a moment, I’d bring it along for the ride.